---
tags: Programming
---

## 0827 Head First HTML and CSS — Study Log #3

#### Chapter 4. *Getting Connected: A Trip to Webville*

- The *File Transfer Protocol* (FTP) is a common means of transferring your web pages and content to a server.
  - FTP commands  
    - dir: get a listing of the current directory.
    - cd: change to another directory. “..” means up one directory here, too.
    - pwd: display the current directory you’re in.
    - put `<filename>`: transfers the specified filename to the server.
    - get `<filename>`: retrieves the specified filename from the server, back to your computer.
 
- A few of the most popular FTP applications for Mac OS X:

  - [Fetch](http://fetchsoftworks.com/) is one of the most popular FTP applications for Mac. $
  - [Transmit](http://www.panic.com/transmit/). $
  - [Cyberduck](http://cyberduck.ch/). FREE
 
- A *Uniform Resource Locator* (URL) is a global address that can be used to locate anything on the Web, including HTML pages, audio, video, and many other forms of web content.  
  In addition to specifying the location of the resource, a URL also names the protocol that you can use to retrieve that resource.  
  A typical URL consists of **a protocol**, **a website name**, and **an absolute path** to the resource.

- HTTP (*HyperText Transfer Protocol*) is an agreed-upon method (a protocol) for transferring hypertext documents around the Web.  
  HTTP is a simple request and response protocol used to transfer web pages between a web server and your browser.

- An **absolute path** tells the server how to get from your root folder to a particular page or file.

- **Relative paths** can only be used to link to pages within the same website, while **URLs** are typically used to link to other websites.

- To link to a specific destination in a page, just add a `#` on the end of your link, followed by the destination identifier (`id`).

- The order of attributes is *not* important in any element.

- It’s OK to **add an `id` attribute to any element**.
  - It’s also OK to link to a specific location by adding an `id` attribute to the destination `<a>` element.

- It's OK to **put a link to a destination from within the same document**.
  - For instance, to link to the “top” destination heading in the same page, you would write `<a href=”#top”>Back to top</a>`.
 
- the browser adds that trailing slash on the end of the URL

- If there is no destination (in other words, no element with an `id`), then you can’t direct the browser to go to a specific location in a web page.

- To work consistently with the most browsers, always start your `id` with a letter (A–Z or a–z) and follow it with any letter, digit, hyphen, underscore, colon, or period.

- “View Source” remains the oldest and best technique for discovering the destinations you can link to.

- `<a>` can be used to create links from all kinds of things.

- To help accessibility, use the `title` attribute to provide a description of the link in `<a>` elements.

- Use the `target` attribute to open a link in another browser window.
  - `<a target="_blank" href="www.sakae.com" title="My website">My website</a>`

---
**Word list:**

- retrieve
- combination 
