---
tags: Programming
---

## 0908 Head First HTML and CSS — Study Log #10

#### Chapter 12. *HTML5 Markup: Modern HTML*

**Keywords:** `HTML5` 

- `<section>`, `<article>`, `<aside>`, `<nav>`, `<header>`, and `<footer>` are all new elements to help you structure your page, and add more meaning than if you use `<div>`.
  - `<section>` is for grouping related content.
  - `<article>` is for self-contained content like blog posts, forum posts, and news articles.
  - `<aside>` is for content that is not central to the main content of the page, such as callouts and sidebars.
  - `<nav>` is for grouping site navigation links.
  - `<header>` groups content such as headings, logos, and bylines that typically go at the top of a page or section.
  - `<footer>` groups content such as document information, legalese, and copyright that typically go at the bottom of a page or section.
  - `<time>` is also a new element in HTML5. It is used to mark up times and dates.
  - `<div>` is still used for structure. It is often used to group elements together for styling purposes or to create structure for content that doesn’t fit into one of the new structure-related elements in HTML5.

- `<video>` is a new HTML element for adding video to your page.
  - A video codec is the encoding used to create the video file. Popular codecs include h.264, Vp8, and Theora.
  - A video container file contains video, audio, and metadata. Popular container formats include MP4, OGG, and WebM.
  - Provide multiple video source files to be sure your audience can view your video files in their browsers.


```

<nav>
	<ul>
       <li><a href="index.html">HOME</a></li>
       <li class="selected"><a href="blog.html">BLOG</a></li>
       <li><a href="">INVENTIONS</a></li>
       <li><a href="">RECIPES</a></li>
       <li><a href="">LOCATIONS</a></li>
  </ul>
</nav>

```


---
>**Word list**
>
>- explicit
>- censored
