---
tags: Programming
---

## 0903 Head First HTML and CSS — Study Log #7

#### Chapter 8. *Styling with Fonts and Colors: Expanding Your Vocabulary*

- Customize the fonts in your pages with the `font-family` property.
  - A `font-family` is a set of fonts that share common characteristics.
  - There are five font families: **sans-serif**, **serif**, **monospace**, **cursive,** and **fantasy**.
- Control the size of your fonts with the `font-size` property.
- Add color to your text with the `color` property.
- Affect the weight of your fonts with the `font-weight` property.
- Add even more style to your text with the `text-decoration` property.
  - overlines, underlines, and line-throughs
  - Underlined text is often confused as linked text by users, so use this property carefully.
- The `font-style` property is used to create `italic` or `oblique` text. Italic and oblique text is slanted.
- Always make the last font a generic font like **serif** or **sans-serif**, so that the browser can make an appropriate substitution if no other fonts are found.
- [FontSquirrel](http://www.fontsquirrel.com/) is a great place to find open source, free fonts that you can upload to your server.
- To use a font that your users may not have installed by default, use the `@font-face` rule in CSS.
- Font sizes are usually specified using `px`, `em`, `%`, or `keywords`.
  - If you use pixels (“px”) to specify your font size, you are telling the browser how many pixels tall to make your letters.
  - You can specify font sizes using `em`, which, like percentage, is another relative unit of measure. `font-size: 1.2em;`
  - `em` and `%` are relative font sizes, so specifying your font size using `em` and `%` means the size of the letters will be relative to the font size of the parent element.
  - You can specify a font size as `xx-small`, `x-small`, `small`, `medium`, `large`, `x-large`, or `xx-large` and the browser will translate these `keywords` into pixel values using defaults that are defined in the browser.
  - Using relative sizes for your fonts can make your pages more maintainable.
- In most cases, the default body font size will be 16 pixels.
- You need to combine the two values into one rule to get both text decorations.

```

@font-face{
    font-family: "EMblema One";
    src: url(../journal-copy/EmblemaOne-Regular.woff),
         url(../journal-copy/EmblemaOne-Regular.ttf)
}
body{
    font-family: Verdana, Geneva, Arial, sans-serif;
    font-size: small;
}
h1,h2{
    color:#c60;
    border-bottom: thin dotted #888888;
}
h1{
    font-family: "Emblema One", sans-serif;
    font-size: 220%;
}
h2{
    font-size:130%;
    font-weight: normal;
}
blockquote{
    font-style: italic;
}

```

---
>**Word list**
>
>- hook
>- barb
>- tad
>- oblique
>- bounce
>- hex

---

#### Chapter 9. *The Box Model: Getting Intimate with Elements*

- `line-height` property allows you to specify the amount of vertical space between each line of your text.
- All elements are treated as boxes: paragraphs, headings, block quotes, lists, list items, and so on. Even inline elements like `<em>` and links are treated by CSS as boxes.
- Boxes consist of the content area and **optional** `padding`, `border`, and `margin`.
  - The `margin` provides space between your element and other elements, while `padding` gives you extra space around your content.
  - Two other properties also affect the background image: `background-position` and `background-repeat`.
    - there is a `no-repeat` value for the `background-repeat` property.
    - The `background-position` property sets the position of the image and can be specified in pixels, or as a percentage, or by using keywords like top, left, right, bottom, and center.
  - For `padding`, `margins`, and even `border`s, CSS has a property for every direction: top, right, bottom, and left.
  - The `border-style` property controls the visual style of the border. There are **eight** border styles available, from a solid line to dotted lines to ridges and grooves.
  - The `border-width` property controls the width of the border. You can use keywords or pixels to specify the width.
  - The `border-color` property sets the color of the border. This works just like setting font colors; you can use color names, rgb values, or hex codes to specify color.
  - Just as with `margin`s and `padding`, you can specify border style, width, or color on any side (top, right, bottom, or left)
  - You can create rounded corners on all four corners, or just one corner, or any combinatio.
    - `border-radius:15px;`
    - `border-top-left-radius:3em;`
    - `border-bottom-right-ridus:0px;`
- An element can’t have multiple `id`s; and you can’t have more than one element on a page with the same `id`.
  - an element can have an `id` and also belong to a `class`
  - an id selector should match only one element in a page.
- To select an element by its `id`, you use a `#` (hash mark) character in front of the `id` (compare this to class, where you use a `.` [dot] in front of the `class` name).
- Class names should begin with a letter, but id names can start with a number or a letter. Both id and class names can contain letters and numbers as well as the _ character, but no spaces.
- You can use more than one stylesheet in your HTML. If two stylesheets have conflicting property definitions, the stylesheet that is **last** in the HTML file will receive preference.
- You can target devices by using media queries in your `<link>` element or the `@media` rule in your CSS.

```

#guarantee{
    line-height: 1.9em;
    font-style: italic;
    color: #444444;
    font-family: Georgia, 'Times New Roman', Times, serif;
    border-color: white;
    border-width: 1px;
    border-style: dashed;
    background-color: #a7cece;
    padding: 25px;
    padding-left: 80px;
    margin: 30px;
    margin-right: 250px;
    background-image: url(images/background.gif);
    background-repeat: no-repeat;
    background-position: top left;   
}

```


---
>**Word list**
>
>- darn
>- thick
>- indent
>- tweak
>- dash
>- query
>- 
