---
tags: Programming Python
---

## 0303 FreeCodeCamp Python Certification — Dictionaries and Sets Review

#### [Dictionaries and Sets Review](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/python-v9/review-dictionaries-and-sets/review-dictionaries-and-sets)

**📑Dictionary**

Dictionaries are built-in data structures that store collections of key-value pairs.

```
dictionary = {
    key1: value1,
    key2: value2
}
```

- To access the value of a key-value pair: `dictionary[key]`
- The `get()` method retrieves the value associated with a key: `dictionary.get(key, default)`
- The `keys()` and `values()` methods return a view object with all the keys and values in the dictionary, respectively.
  ```
  pizza = {
    'name': 'Margherita Pizza',
    'price': 8.9,
    'calories_per_slice': 250
    }

   pizza.keys()
   # dict_keys(['name', 'price', 'calories_per_slice'])

   pizza.values()
   # dict_values(['Margherita Pizza', 8.9, 250])
   ```

 - The `items()` method returns a view object with all the key-value pairs in the dictionary, including both the keys and the values.
   ```
   pizza.items()
   # dict_items([('name', 'Margherita Pizza'), ('price', 8.9), ('calories_per_slice', 250)])
   ```

 - If you need to iterate over the values in a dictionary, you can write a `for` loop with `values()` to get all the values of a dictionary.
   ```
   products = {
       'Laptop': 990,
       'Smartphone': 600,
       'Tablet': 250,
       'Headphones': 70,
   }

   for price in products.values():
       print(price)
   # 990
     600
     250
     70
   ```

- Iterating Over Keys: If you need to iterate over the keys in the `products` dictionary above, you can write `products.keys()` or `products` directly.
- Iterating Over Key-Value Pairs: If you need to iterate over the keys and their corresponding values simultaneously, you can iterate over `products.items()`.
- enumerate() Function: If you need to iterate over a dictionary while keeping track of a counter, you can call the `enumerate()` function.

**🧦Set**

Sets are built-in data structures in Python that *do not allow* duplicate values.   

- Defining a Set: `my_set = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}`
- If you need to define an empty set, you must use the `set()` function.
- The `issubset()` and the `issuperset()` methods check if a set is a subset or superset of another set, respectively.
  ```
  my_set = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
  your_set = {2, 3, 4, 5}

  print(your_set.issubset(my_set)) # True
  print(my_set.issuperset(your_set)) # True
  ```

- The `isdisjoint()` method checks if two sets are disjoint, if they don't have elements in common.
- The union operator | returns a new set with all the elements from both sets.
  ```
  my_set = {1, 2, 3}
  your_set = {4, 5, 6}

  my_set | your_set # {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6}
  ```

- The intersection operator `&` returns a new set with only the elements that the sets have in common.
- The difference operator `-` returns a new set with the elements of the first set that are not in the other sets.
- The symmetric difference operator `^` returns a new set with the elements that are either in the first or the second set, but not both.
- check if an element is in a set or not with the `in` operator: `print(5 in my_set) # True`

**📚Python Standard Library**

A library gives you pre-written and reusable code, like functions, classes, and data structures, that you can reuse in your projects.

- use the `import` keyword followed by the name of the module: `import module_name`
- if you need to call a method from that module, you would use dot notation, with the name of the module followed by the name of the method. `module_name.method_name()`
- you can use as followed by the alias at the end of the import statement. `import module_name as module_alias`

**_Test　18/20_**
