---
tags: Work Thinking
---

## 0209 Thinking about the future

What a boring job, I need to find some fun for myself.

I decided to call the aviation company to confirm whether Agoda helped me or not. 
If not, I’ll send one last email and contact the credit card company to ask for my money back.

📖 Started reading *The Giver* chapter 13

📧 Sent an email to the aviation company _in English_ to confirm the situation

Now I want to talk about what I want to be.
First of all, I'd like to talk while reorganizing my thoughts about what I really like to do.

I like talking to other people. Wherever I am, whatever language I speak, I always want to talk to somebody and build bonds with others. 
So I think my next job must have more opportunities to talk with people, so I can feel the connection with others, which will make my job meaningful and fun.

I like working with other people. My current job has almost no opportunity to communicate with my coworkers because it's not necessary. 
The whole reason is the job is so easy and not challenging that I can handle it all by myself. 
Though it makes me feel so free and I can do everything I want to do, and I don't need to work overtime, I still hate my job.
The work part of my work-life balance is too small, which means it's unbalanced.
So I think my next job must be more challenging and more difficult, so I can learn more and more while doing my day job. It will be much more fun than now.

I like new things, so I want to work in a company with good growth prospects. So I'll need to keep learning new things to stay professional.

I'd like to use all my talents and skills for work—such as my recruiting experience, my language skills in Chinese, Japanese, and English, my enthusiasm for life, and my kindness. 
Not just sitting in front of the computer making some pictures.
And I believe that will bring me a better salary.

I want to change my nationality and maybe live in more countries.
I will buy a house with my girlfriend and live with a dog and a cat.
I will get a car as a present from my girlfriend and drive to many places for trips.
I will continue practicing kendo and get the highest dan possible.
I will continue running—I want to participate in marathon races in every prefecture.
I will continue exercising and building more muscle.
I will keep all my connections with my current friends and kendo practitioners and teachers.
I will have some shelves filled with books and my collection.

I will find my own balance—not just life and slacking off, but also a truly meaningful job that can make me a better person.

🔖 **17:40** Finished reading chapter 14

